All right now that you know what comments are going to be using that title what it is we're talking
about in each lecture and in this one we're going to be talking about if statements in booleans.
So first let's start with Boolean How do you create a boolean in cotland.
All you do is make a variable give it some name like is the dog alive scan of a Morbelli example either
it's alive or it's dead.
I guess if you watch The Princess Bride you could say it's mostly that or something like that but with
a and you just simply set it equal to true or you said equal to false.
No quotes around it that would make it a string.
And the type for this is it's not you know bhool like this it's actually boolean.
So you have to type all the full boolean and if you're talking about the cotland type of true or false
and those are the only two things.
It can be equal to.
So there you have booleans.
Now if statements let's go ahead and talk about those you do if and then you put parentheses with some
sort of boolean inside of their expression and then you do curly brackets to say hey if this thing is
true go ahead and run the code that's in these curly brackets.
So for example we could put the is the dog alive and you know if it's equal to true will run on in here
you can put an else statement to say hey if that's not true we'll go ahead and do something here.
The other thing that you can do is obviously with their statements is you can compare things.
So if I made a variable like age I could you know make an if statement that checks to see if somebody
is over a particular age so I could say if age is greater than 18 you know then I could pronounce something
like you were able to ride the ride and if not you could say you're not able to ride the ride.
I'm guessing this would be some code at like a theme park or something.
I don't know.
But you can do greater than you can do less than you can do greater than or equal to.
Same thing with less then if you want to see two things are exactly the same used to equal sign.
If you want to say check and see if things are not equal to each other use the exclamation point and
then the equal sign.
You can test multiple things if you want by using two Ampere's stamps to say OK if age is not 18 and
you know is the dog alive.
That's like you know checking another condition there or if you want it rather than do that and you
can say or by doing the two straight up line so to get to this you have to say shift and then hit the
backslash key to get those up and down lines but.
So this is saying if either one of these things is true then you run the code inside of here because
that's true.
And the Ampere's stamp and is saying OK this thing has to be true and this thing has to be true in under.
In order to ride run the code that's going to be inside of here.
So again you probably know what if statements are and how to use them.
So I think you're probably good with what we have here.
Let's go ahead and dive into our challenge and simply what I want you to do is create a variable that's
equal to your name.
So make a variable called name and then make an if statement.
To check if your name is equal to Nick.
If so
print
Nick is a box Boz I don't think I spelled both correctly like I wanted to.
But anyways there's a chapel challenge very simple but go ahead and do that now.
OK.
So hopefully this went well for you.
You create a variable that is called name said equal to your name.
So the odds of your name being Nick is very low but so if it is congratulations you what the code we're
supposed to run is to say hey if name is equal to Nick then we are going to do a print line where we
print out.
Nick is a boss just like that.
And all of a sudden boom all works are going to go ahead and run my code.
See if this is really the case.
And oh my goodness look at that.
Nick in fact is the boss.
All right we're going to keep moving forward and the next one we are going to be talking about four
loops.